This folder contains modules that can be used for realization of EnGINE's services. 
The modules UdpApp (and its extending modules UdpSourceApp and UdpSinkApp) and TcpClientApp can be used for realizing the services for packet generation or receiving. They share a similar architecture and have separate submodules for traffic generation, receiving and traffic specific io. The submodule source is optional and it can be used for an ActivePacketSource like module for packet generation, whch can be specified via the source.typename parameter. Depending on the actual module in use, submodule specific parameters can be set. The submodule sink is optional and it can be used for an PassivePacketSink like module for packet receiving, whch can be specified via the source.typename parameter. Depending on the actual module in use, submodule specific parameters can be set. The submodule io can be used to set up transport related parameters. 
The folder [iperf](iperf) contains definition for the simple module Iperf3LikePacketSource that can be used for realizing the iperf service. It extends ActivePackets by implementing an additional parameter productionStopTime which indicates an absolute time at which the service should stop sending.
The folder [send_udp](send_udp) defines the simple modules SendUdpPacketSource for realizing the send_udp service. The folders [recv_udp](recv_udp), and [recv_send_udp](recv_send_udp) contain definitions of modules with similar functionality. They all define the parameter numPackets and set the respective clockModule and scheduleForAbsoluteTime parameters. SendUdpPacketSource and RecvSendUdpPacketS additionally define the parameters mode and delay. Based on the parameters they set other parameters to fixed values and RecvSendUdpPacketS additionally defines new ones, as well as labels for statistics recording.
The folder [udpapp](udpapp) defines the custom module RecvSendUdpApp which can be used to realize the server program for the setup_rtt service. It extends UdpApp by disabling the modules source and sink and instead defining a new submodule s of fixed type RecvSendUdpPacketS that serves as both, packet source and packet sink, at the same time.

# Configuration

For an app[x] submodule parameter .typename can be used for instantiating apps of type UdpApp (or its extending modules UdpSourceApp and UdpSinkApp) or TcpClientApp. For the io submodule the parmeter localAddress can be used to set an IP source address and the localPort parameter can be used to set the source port for the transport layer protocol. destAddress (UDP) resp. connectAddress (TCP) can be used to set the IP address of the remote node and destPort (UDP) resp. connectPort (TCP) can be used to set the transport layer port of the remote node.
For the source resp. sink submodule the typename parameter can be used to set its type.
For the Iperf3LikeSource module the parameters initialProductionOffset, productionInterval and packetLength can be used to set the required parameters for realizing the iperf service. The statistics packetReceived and packetReceived:vector(packetBytes) can be used for statistics recording.
For submodules of type SendUdpPacketSource, RecvUdpPacketSink or SendRecvUdpPacketS, the parameter numPackets can be used to set the number of packets to be sent, received or forwarded. For SendUdpPacketSource and RecvSendUdpPacketS the parameter mode can be used to indicate the packet sending behavior. The parameter dekay can be used to realize the txtime delay. for SendUdpPacketSource the parameter interval can be used to set the packet sending frequency and base baseTime can be used to influence the starting time of packet sending.
